README.md, before:

# Kraken Lite
This is a lite, open-source version of the kraken.  

## How to clone this repository
This repository depends on a git submodule, `kraken-common`, so it is important to correctly initialize it immediately after cloning, to avoid compilation errors.  
To do so, launch the following commands:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:icure/kraken-lite.git
cd kraken-lite
git submodule init
git submodule update
./gradlew :lite-core:build
```

After that, if the operation completes successfully, the repository and all its submodules will be correctly initialized. 

## Migration steps (for SDK version >=8)
If you are migrating from a version of the sdk that is less than 8 to the SDK v8 or greater, there are some properties that need to be added for the kraken-lite to work correctly.

### Enabling the new views
By default, the new CouchDB views required by the SDK v8 are not enabled. To enable them, add this property when running the kraken-lite:
```bash
-Dicure.dao.useDataOwnerPartition=true
```

## How to enable SAM and Kmehr modules
To include SAM and Kmehr module, two steps are needed:  
When building the `-Dicure.optional.regions=be` option should be set:
```bash
./gradlew -x test :lite-core:build -Dicure.optional.regions=be
```

When running the generated jar, the spring profiles `kmehr` (to include kmehr module) and `sam` (to include the SAM module) should be added:
```bash
-Dspring.profiles.active=app,kmehr,sam
```

## How to add External design documents
In order to use external design documents, two steps are required:

### Set up the signing public key
All the external views must be signed, as specified in the [external views template repository](https://github.com/icure/external-design-doc-template). 
To add the public key to verify the signature, the following property must be set in the `application-app.properties` file:
```bash
icure.couchdb.external.loading.publicSigningKey=<THE_PUBLIC_KEY>
```

### Set up the external views repositories
It is possible to set up multiple source as external repositories for views, as long as they follow the [external views template repository](https://github.com/icure/external-design-doc-template).
To set them up, you must define multiple properties with the prefix `icure.couchdb.external.repos` + the partition name, where
the value is the github URL of the repository (that must be public) up to the branch name:

```bash
-Dicure.couchdb.external.repos.PartitionOne=https://github.com/icure/external-design-doc-template/main -Dicure.couchdb.external.repos.AnotherPartition=https://github.com/icure/an-external-repo-for-views/main
```

## How to add plugins
To add plugin jars, put them into a single folder. Then, set the following property to that folder:
```bash
-Dicure.lite.plugins.sourceFolder=/path/to/plugin/folder
```
:warning:
Kraken-lite will try to load the plugins from all the JARs in the provided folder. To prevent errors, pass as parameter
a folder where no other JAR file is present (e.g. the kraken-lite jar itself).

Commit message:

Switched to background indexation at startup + added endpoint to change ken workers

README.md, after:

# Kraken Lite
This is a lite, open-source version of the kraken.  

## How to clone this repository
This repository depends on a git submodule, `kraken-common`, so it is important to correctly initialize it immediately after cloning, to avoid compilation errors.  
To do so, launch the following commands:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:icure/kraken-lite.git
cd kraken-lite
git submodule init
git submodule update
./gradlew :lite-core:build
```

After that, if the operation completes successfully, the repository and all its submodules will be correctly initialized. 

## Migration steps (for SDK version >=8)
If you are migrating from a version of the sdk that is less than 8 to the SDK v8 or greater, there are some properties that need to be added for the kraken-lite to work correctly.

### Enabling the new views
By default, the new CouchDB views required by the SDK v8 are not enabled. To enable them, add this property when running the kraken-lite:
```bash
-Dicure.dao.useDataOwnerPartition=true
```

### Configuring background indexation workers
When a new view is created, CouchDB will start the indexation process in background. You can control the number of workers
allocated to indexation by setting the following property (default is 1):
```bash
-Dicure.dao.backgroundIndexationWorkers=<ANY_NUMBER>
```
The more workers, the faster the views will index but also more resources will be used.
You can change the number of workers for indexation at any time, by calling the following endpoint:
```bash
curl -v -u USERNAME:PASSWORD http://localhost:16043/rest/v2/icure/couchdb/config/ken/batch_channels?value=<ANY_NUMBER>
```
:warning: Increasing the number of workers will immediately start more indexation processes but reducing it will not stop
them: the active process will have to complete before their number is actually reduced.

:warning: Querying the view before the indexation completes will make the indexation to pass from a background state to a
foreground state (see below).

### Foreground view indexation
If you are using an old couchdb version, then the indexation of the views will not happen in background. In this case,
you can force the indexation of the views at startup by setting the following option to `true`:
```bash
-Dicure.dao.forceForegroundIndexation=true
```
:warning: While in the background indexation is possible to control the number of workers, this is not possible with the 
foreground indexation. The foreground indexation will try and use all the resources available on the system, and this can
be detrimental for the execution of the other processes on the machine.

## How to enable SAM and Kmehr modules
To include SAM and Kmehr module, two steps are needed:  
When building the `-Dicure.optional.regions=be` option should be set:
```bash
./gradlew -x test :lite-core:build -Dicure.optional.regions=be
```

When running the generated jar, the spring profiles `kmehr` (to include kmehr module) and `sam` (to include the SAM module) should be added:
```bash
-Dspring.profiles.active=app,kmehr,sam
```

## How to add External design documents
In order to use external design documents, two steps are required:

### Set up the signing public key
All the external views must be signed, as specified in the [external views template repository](https://github.com/icure/external-design-doc-template). 
To add the public key to verify the signature, the following property must be set in the `application-app.properties` file:
```bash
-Dicure.couchdb.external.loading.publicSigningKey=<THE_PUBLIC_KEY>
```

### Set up the external views repositories
It is possible to set up multiple source as external repositories for views, as long as they follow the [external views template repository](https://github.com/icure/external-design-doc-template).
To set them up, you must define multiple properties with the prefix `icure.couchdb.external.repos` + the partition name, where
the value is the github URL of the repository (that must be public) up to the branch name:

```bash
-Dicure.couchdb.external.repos.PartitionOne=https://github.com/icure/external-design-doc-template/main -Dicure.couchdb.external.repos.AnotherPartition=https://github.com/icure/an-external-repo-for-views/main
```

## How to add plugins
To add plugin jars, put them into a single folder. Then, set the following property to that folder:
```bash
-Dicure.lite.plugins.sourceFolder=/path/to/plugin/folder
```
:warning:
Kraken-lite will try to load the plugins from all the JARs in the provided folder. To prevent errors, pass as parameter
a folder where no other JAR file is present (e.g. the kraken-lite jar itself).
